# Better than a “B”ee project

## Project #3 members: Yukie Kajita, Katy Luquire, Jessica Yoder, Graham Endean, Brian Stronger, John Falcone
 
Beginning in 2006 with the first reported case of Colony Collapse Disorder (CCD), honeybee hives across the world (and for this project the USA) have been disappearing at an alarming rate. With no end in sight to the loss of our favorite pollinators, cause apparently nobody learned anything from the Bee movie, once again data must come to the rescue! We have devised two machine learning tasks to aid our fellow bee enthusiasts and researchers in understanding CCD as well as some trends to point to so it can be prevented in the future.

First, the team will be using a Kaggle data set on honey production in the USA from 1998 to 2012, giving us valuable data from before and after the start of CDD that can be analyzed into a machine learning model set to see if there was any way to have predicted this global collapse earlier or even possibly prevented it. This data will be separated by state and year to then include a total number of honey-producing colonies, their yield in pounds (per colony and per state), stock in holding for the winter (pounds), the average price per pound, and the total production value.  The data is separated into 4-year spreads from 1998 to 2012 in different CSV files, the analysis however will be conducted on the entire data set to get a reliable source for the machine learning model.

Second, to help our fellow bee heads creating a model to identify if this is a bee or wasp compared to other insects, intended to be used with uploaded pictures from users and our raw data to predict whether or not this thing is a bee or wasp. Using a model of raw image files of both and others to come into the model and then give us a better understanding of what we are looking at is in fact a bee or wasp. Using random forest or linear regression to train our model with hopefully a high success rate over 0.85, this model might be difficult for team computers to handle as they need high GPU power to process the images.
